In an OAuth2 client,
you might need to customize the authorization request that
gets sent to the authorization server.
You might need to add additional request parameters for the authorization
code flow as providers might not always implement things correctly as per
the specification or require custom parameters,
which the standard does allow.
Now by default, Spring uses the default OAuth2AuthorizationRequestResolver.
If you recall, when you select the login,
the request is for the OAuth2 authorization endpoint.
Now the default OAuth2AuthorizationRequestResolver intercepts this,
looks up the client via the registration ID in the
client registration repository, and creates a redirect authorization request,
which is sent via the user's browser to the authorization server.
Now you might need to modify this,
and Spring allows you to provide your own version of the
OAuth2AuthorizationRequestResolver.
Here I have an example of a custom implementation,
which is a class that implements the
OAuth2AuthorizationRequestResolver interface and overrides the required
methods.
This implementation is a wrapper around the default implementation.
We simply create an internal reference of the default resolver,
passing in the client registration repository.
In the resolve method that returns the authorization request,
we simply call the default implementation and then we
can customize it before returning it.
In this example, we can add additional parameters like the optional prompt,
consent,
which will prompt the user for consent each time they log in to the application.
All we do now is add it, you guessed it,
to the authorization endpoint via the OAuth2 login.
Easy.
Now if we restart our application, you can see the new parameter being passed in the authorization request.